# Data-visualization-in-R
This repository shows how I visualized data in R using ggplot2.
# About the project and dataset
In this project, i reviewed a scenario, and used ggplot2 to quickly create data visualizations that allowed me to explore the data and gain new insights using basic ggplot2 syntax. The dataset is for a hotel booking company which i have cleaned and manipulated, and gotten some initial insights i would like to share. I created some simple data visualizations with the `ggplot2` package. I used basic `ggplot2` syntax and troubleshooted some common errors i encountered. Link to dataset is below
# https://d3c33hcgiwev3.cloudfront.net/GL0bk8O2Sja9G5PDtko2uQ_31e445d7ca64417eb45aeaa08ec90bf1_hotel_bookings.csv?Expires=1705449600&Signature=OqDH20mgC2zfLHLehKu~s1IgdCDqYPV72d7UQQ2bH5hUCPLCjl9-AJnyEJv4SdpbxZsHweS~jQOmeqG2NRwpfQ7O4g2N3xXr7agbIojXLaErtRMFF2sDc7sznLHtNGAuMvojx8wjrvgP5JR9Wb26Nboq1WVRC-JPkXQY9sn4MB4_&Key-Pair-Id=APKAJLTNE6QMUY6HBC5A
# Description
Logged into Rstudio. Imported the data using the `read_csv()` function and saved it as a data frame called `hotel_bookings`, Used the `head()` function to preview the data and `colnames()` to get the names of all the columns in the data set. Installed and loaded the 'ggplot2' package in order to use the `ggplot()` function. The stakeholder wants to target people who book early, and have a hypothesis that people with children have to book in advance. I created a visualization to see how true that statement is or isn't using `ggplot2`. Next, the stakeholder says that they want to increase weekend bookings, an important source of revenue for the hotel. The stakeholder wants to know what group of guests book the most weekend nights in order to target that group in a new marketing campaign. They suggested that guests without children book the most weekend nights. I created a visualization to see how true that statement is or isn't using `ggplot2`. The link to the entire project on Rstudio is below. The both visualizations can be seen on the right side of the page by clicking the both arrows on the top left corner.
Next, I made visualizations using bar charts too. The stakeholder is interested in developing promotions based on different booking distributions, but first they need to know how many of the transactions are occurring for each different distribution type. You can tell `ggplot()` what type of chart you want to create by using the `geom_` argument. Previously, i used `geom_point` to make a scatter plot comparing lead time and number of children. Now, i will use `geom_bar` to make a bar chart. TA/TO has the most number of transactions. Next, the stakeholder want to know if the number of bookings for each distribution type is different depending on whether or not there was a deposit or what market segment they represent so i ran a code that includes data from 'deposit_type' column. Next i ran a code replacing the deposite_type with market_segment. After reviewing the new charts, the stakeholder asked that i create separate charts for each deposit type and market segment to help them understand the differences more clearly, I used the `facet_` function to do this very quickly by adding 'deposit_type' to the code. I noticed that it's hard to read the x-axis labels so i added one piece of code at the end that rotates the text to 45 degrees to make it easier to read. I did same for the market_segment to get a clearer view. I also explored the `facet_grid` function that does something similar. The main difference is that `facet_grid` will include plots even if they are empty.
# https://posit.cloud/content/7363361
# Summary
The geom_point() function uses points to create a scatterplot. Scatterplots are useful for showing the relationship between two numeric variables. In this first visualization created, the code maps the variable 'lead_time' to the x-axis and the variable 'children' to the y-axis. On the x-axis, the plot shows how far in advance a booking is made, with the bookings furthest to the right happening the most in advance. On the y-axis it shows how many children there are in a party. The plot reveals that the stakeholder's hypothesis is incorrect. I reported back to the stakeholder that many of the advanced bookings are being made by people with 0 children. For the second visualization created, the scatterplot has the 'stays_in_weekend_nights' on the x-axis and 'children' on the y-axis. The plot reveals that the stakeholder's hypothesis is correct, guest without children book the most weekend nights.
For the bar chart, the first visualization shows a bar chart with 'distribution_channel' on the x axis and 'count' on the y axis. There is data for corporate, direct, GDS, TA/TO, and undefined distribution channels. TA/TO has the most number of bookings. The second visualization shows a bar chart with 'distribution_channel' on the x-axis and 'count' on the y axis and also includes data from 'deposit_type' column as color-coded sections of each bar. There is a legend explaining what each color represents on the right side of the visualization. For the third visualization, the market_segment data is recorded. For the fourth visualization, the code chunk creates three bar charts for 'no_deposit', non_refund', and 'refundable' deposit types. The fifth and sixth visualization shows that the labels on the x axis with the different distribution channels are clearer for the deposit type and market segment. The 7th and 8th charts shows visualization using `facet_grid` for deposit type and market segment.
